docs/specSheet.md, before:

# Lunk Game Spec Sheet
## version 1.0

## Table of contents
- [Objective](#objective)
- [Player Movement](#player-movement)
    - [Wall Collisions](#wall-collisions)
    - [Player Rotation](#player-rotation)
      - [Movement Rotation](#movement-rotation)
      - [Animation Rotation](#animation-rotation)
      - [Player Status](#player-status)
- [Enemy Movement](#enemy-movement)
- [Enemy Interaction](#enemy-interaction)
    - [Attack Enemy Options](#attack-enemy-options)
    - [Enemy Attack Damsel](#enemy-attack-damsel)
- [Damsel Movement](#damsel-movement)
- [Score System](#score-system)
    - [Health Bar](#health-bar)
    - [High Score](#high-score)
    - [Boredom Meter](#boredom-meter)
- [Map Rendering System](#map-rendering-system)
- [Tile Set Support](#tile-set-support)


## Objective
The main objective of Lunk, the player character, is to do what he wants and do it when he wants.
The secondary objective is for Lunk to not do what he does not want to do.

Lunk positive interactions:
* Lunk wants to crush his enemies.
* Lunk wants to save the damsels.


Lunk negative interactions:
* fall off the map, reappear somewhere random
* crush damsel
* ingest non-tasty things


## Player Movement
Lunk always goes forward, but he can choose to turn to the left or the right.

This means movement is rotational in nature. Lunk's heading will be adjusted but not suddenly altered. The purpose of this movement system is to give Lunk the feeling of an unwieldy character who is hard to control directly. The player can steer Lunk, but not command him. The same thought process was used when creating Lunks abilities and enemy interactions.

If Lunk falls off the map, he jumps back up so high that the landing spot is a random area within a 10 by 10 area near the fall point

### Wall Collisions
If Lunk initiates a wall collision there will be 2 potential outcomes:
* Lunk turns around
  * Lunk pauses movement for 1 second while slowly turning around
  * Lunk chooses a new direction to run from a random direction not facing the wall
  * Lunk resumes running
* Lunk keeps going
  * The wall is destroyed
  * Lunk moves forward
  * Boredom meter is reduced by x max percent. x should be set to something very large, potentially 25% of max meter.

Each option has a 50% chance of happening.

### Player Rotation
The player rotation effects the sprite animation and where the sprite is moving.
Due to Lunk always going forward, as the sprite rotates, the rotation determines which direction points forward.
The Direction is stored in a vector containing the X and Y orientation in a grid from -1 to 1 as shown below:

<img src="./specSheetImages/sprite-directions.PNG" width="300" height="300" style="padding-left: 50px;">

#### Movement Rotation
The player movement rotation refers to rotating the X and Y direction with the left and right keyboard buttons.
As the player runs foward, this rotation steers the player.

#### Animation Rotation
The player animation rotation refers to the animation rotation offset that is used when displaying the player's animation images.
With no rotation, there are only animations for the four cardinal directions. Animation rotation adds in a rotation to the displayed animation
in alignment with the current directional rotation. 

The animation used during this rotation will be defined by the player status.

#### Player Status

The player status is determined by the current player rotation. The options are listed below:

* Up:

  This status is when the direction vector falls within the northern most section of the direction sphere.
* Down:

  This status is when the direction vector falls within the southern most section of the direction sphere.
* Left:

  This status is when the direction vector falls within the western most section of the direction sphere.
* Right:

  This status is when the direction vector falls within the eastern most section of the direction sphere.

The player status determines which animation frame will be active.

## Enemy Movement
Enemies will wander the map after being spawned.

* if a damsel is within 10 squares, enemies will walk generally toward the damsel
* if a damsel is within 4 squares, enemies will run directly towards the damsel
* if Lunk is greater than 5 squares enemies will walk generally away from Lunk
* if Lunk is less than 5 squares and a damsel is within 10 squares, enemies will run directly towards Lunk to stop him from saving the damsel
* if enemy is blocked (on a wall or other object), walk towards Lunk

## Enemy Interaction
When the hit box interacts, rotate through the 3 abilities described [here](#attack-enemy-options).

### Attack Enemy Options
Options will rotate through every enemy interaction in a loop. The options to attack an enemy are:
* Crush

  The simplest enemy interaction. Any enemy is simply crushed beneath Lunk's feet with no chance of survival.
* Throw

  Lunk chooses to remove his enemy from sight by tossing it out like the trash. Enemies will fly forward 2 or 3 spaces before dying in the embrace of the ground.
If a damsel is crushed by Lunk's flying enemy, Lunk losses his points from his [health bar](#health-bar).
* Eat

  Lunk gets hungry, he eats his enemy. Eating can be positive or negative depending on what is eaten.

### Enemy Attack Damsel
Enemies will try to kill or kidnap damsels if they see any.

The mechanics of this are to be decided.

## Damsel Movement
Damsels will wander the map when spawned.

* if an enemy if within 6 squares of a damsel, they will walk in the opposite direction
    * this is ignored if Lunk is nearby in favor of Lunk related logic
* if Lunk is within 12 squares of a damsel, they will walk towards Lunk
* if Lunk is within 5 squares of a damsel, they will stand still and make heart emojis at Lunk

## Score System
### Health Bar
Lunk can only do so many things he doesn't like doing before deciding to sleep and ignore everything.
The health bar is a countdown to Lunk sleeping out of anger. When it reaches 0, the game is over.

### High Score
Lunk gains points for doing things he likes to do.
Each favorable action adds to the total high score for an amount specific to each action

### Boredom Meter
Each level has a set timer that ticks up to the moment Lunk goes to sleep from boredom.

## Map Rendering System
The map shall not be rerendered unless the player object is within x% of the screen width.

If the player has crossed the rerendering border, the map and player will rerender repeatedly moving the player position slowly back to the center of the view port until the player is centered in the screen.

## Tile Set Support
There will be support for reading images in from a tileset or spritesheet of images. 
A tileset is defined as a single image storing many subimages in a grid. This grid of images can be parsed for internal use by knowing the coordinates of specific images within the tileset grid.

Tilesets are used to create landscape maps in an external programed called tiled. These tiled maps are exported as an CSV of integer values that map to a subimage within the tileset.
Internal mapping that matches tiled mapping is stored for seemless integration between generated maps and pygame.

Commit message:

Added game flow to spec sheet

docs/specSheet.md, after:

# Lunk Game Spec Sheet
## version 1.0

## Table of contents
- [Objective](#objective)
- [Game Flow](#game-flow)
- [Player Movement](#player-movement)
    - [Wall Collisions](#wall-collisions)
    - [Player Rotation](#player-rotation)
      - [Movement Rotation](#movement-rotation)
      - [Animation Rotation](#animation-rotation)
      - [Player Status](#player-status)
- [Enemy Movement](#enemy-movement)
- [Enemy Interaction](#enemy-interaction)
    - [Attack Enemy Options](#attack-enemy-options)
    - [Enemy Attack Damsel](#enemy-attack-damsel)
- [Damsel Movement](#damsel-movement)
- [Score System](#score-system)
    - [Health Bar](#health-bar)
    - [High Score](#high-score)
    - [Boredom Meter](#boredom-meter)
- [Map Rendering System](#map-rendering-system)
- [Tile Set Support](#tile-set-support)


## Objective
The main objective of Lunk, the player character, is to do what he wants and do it when he wants.
The secondary objective is for Lunk to not do what he does not want to do.

Lunk positive interactions:
* Lunk wants to crush his enemies.
* Lunk wants to save the damsels.


Lunk negative interactions:
* fall off the map, reappear somewhere random
* crush damsel
* ingest non-tasty things

## Game Flow
The game will start with Lunk spawning into a level facing towards the center of the map. Lunk will be always be moving.

There will be a set amount of enemies on the map.
There will be a set amount of damsels in distress on the map.
The map will have landscape entities that act as barriers.

The player will be incentivized to plan an optimal route to save the maximum amount of damsels. Levels should be structured such that deviating from the optimal route should have negative consequences, but not be unfun to play.

A cut scene of the camera panning accross the map should be shown at the start of each level for players to plan their approach.

## Player Movement
Lunk always goes forward, but he can choose to turn to the left or the right.

This means movement is rotational in nature. Lunk's heading will be adjusted but not suddenly altered. The purpose of this movement system is to give Lunk the feeling of an unwieldy character who is hard to control directly. The player can steer Lunk, but not command him. The same thought process was used when creating Lunks abilities and enemy interactions.

If Lunk falls off the map, he jumps back up so high that the landing spot is a random area within a 10 by 10 area near the fall point

### Wall Collisions
If Lunk initiates a wall collision there will be 2 potential outcomes:
* Lunk turns around
  * Lunk pauses movement for 1 second while slowly turning around
  * Lunk chooses a new direction to run from a random direction not facing the wall
  * Lunk resumes running
* Lunk keeps going
  * The wall is destroyed
  * Lunk moves forward
  * Boredom meter is reduced by x max percent. x should be set to something very large, potentially 25% of max meter.

Each option has a 50% chance of happening.

### Player Rotation
The player rotation effects the sprite animation and where the sprite is moving.
Due to Lunk always going forward, as the sprite rotates, the rotation determines which direction points forward.
The Direction is stored in a vector containing the X and Y orientation in a grid from -1 to 1 as shown below:

<img src="./specSheetImages/sprite-directions.PNG" width="300" height="300" style="padding-left: 50px;">

#### Movement Rotation
The player movement rotation refers to rotating the X and Y direction with the left and right keyboard buttons.
As the player runs foward, this rotation steers the player.

#### Animation Rotation
The player animation rotation refers to the animation rotation offset that is used when displaying the player's animation images.
With no rotation, there are only animations for the four cardinal directions. Animation rotation adds in a rotation to the displayed animation
in alignment with the current directional rotation. 

The animation used during this rotation will be defined by the player status.

#### Player Status

The player status is determined by the current player rotation. The options are listed below:

* Up:

  This status is when the direction vector falls within the northern most section of the direction sphere.
* Down:

  This status is when the direction vector falls within the southern most section of the direction sphere.
* Left:

  This status is when the direction vector falls within the western most section of the direction sphere.
* Right:

  This status is when the direction vector falls within the eastern most section of the direction sphere.

The player status determines which animation frame will be active.

## Enemy Movement
Enemies will wander the map after being spawned.

* if a damsel is within 10 squares, enemies will walk generally toward the damsel
* if a damsel is within 4 squares, enemies will run directly towards the damsel
* if Lunk is greater than 5 squares enemies will walk generally away from Lunk
* if Lunk is less than 5 squares and a damsel is within 10 squares, enemies will run directly towards Lunk to stop him from saving the damsel
* if enemy is blocked (on a wall or other object), walk towards Lunk

## Enemy Interaction
When the hit box interacts, rotate through the 3 abilities described [here](#attack-enemy-options).

### Attack Enemy Options
Options will rotate through every enemy interaction in a loop. The options to attack an enemy are:
* Crush

  The simplest enemy interaction. Any enemy is simply crushed beneath Lunk's feet with no chance of survival.
* Throw

  Lunk chooses to remove his enemy from sight by tossing it out like the trash. Enemies will fly forward 2 or 3 spaces before dying in the embrace of the ground.
If a damsel is crushed by Lunk's flying enemy, Lunk losses his points from his [health bar](#health-bar).
* Eat

  Lunk gets hungry, he eats his enemy. Eating can be positive or negative depending on what is eaten.

### Enemy Attack Damsel
Enemies will try to kill or kidnap damsels if they see any.

The mechanics of this are to be decided.

## Damsel Movement
Damsels will wander the map when spawned.

* if an enemy if within 6 squares of a damsel, they will walk in the opposite direction
    * this is ignored if Lunk is nearby in favor of Lunk related logic
* if Lunk is within 12 squares of a damsel, they will walk towards Lunk
* if Lunk is within 5 squares of a damsel, they will stand still and make heart emojis at Lunk

## Score System
### Health Bar
Lunk can only do so many things he doesn't like doing before deciding to sleep and ignore everything.
The health bar is a countdown to Lunk sleeping out of anger. When it reaches 0, the game is over.

### High Score
Lunk gains points for doing things he likes to do.
Each favorable action adds to the total high score for an amount specific to each action

### Boredom Meter
Each level has a set timer that ticks up to the moment Lunk goes to sleep from boredom.

## Map Rendering System
The map shall not be rerendered unless the player object is within x% of the screen width.

If the player has crossed the rerendering border, the map and player will rerender repeatedly moving the player position slowly back to the center of the view port until the player is centered in the screen.

## Tile Set Support
There will be support for reading images in from a tileset or spritesheet of images. 
A tileset is defined as a single image storing many subimages in a grid. This grid of images can be parsed for internal use by knowing the coordinates of specific images within the tileset grid.

Tilesets are used to create landscape maps in an external programed called tiled. These tiled maps are exported as an CSV of integer values that map to a subimage within the tileset.
Internal mapping that matches tiled mapping is stored for seemless integration between generated maps and pygame.
